DUTERTE TO VISIT SOUTH KOREA THIS MONTH FOR ASEAN-ROK COMMEMORATIVE SUMMIT

President Duterte will visit Busan, South Korea, this month to attend the Asean-Republic of Korea (ROK) Commemorative Summit, Presidential Spokesman and Chief Presidential Legal Counsel Salvador S. Panelo said last week.

In a radio interview, Panelo confirmed the President's attendance to the summit scheduled on November 25 and 26, to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Asean-ROK Dialogue Partnership.

"Yes. He will push through [with his visit to Korea]," Panelo said, adding that it is "most likely" that the President will have a bilateral meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in during his visit.

"Most likely, there will be one because there's always a bilateral meeting in a foreign visit," Panelo added.

He said the two leaders would discuss issues of mutual interest, including trade and security.

This would be the President's second visit to Korea since assuming office.

The Chief Executive's visit also comes at a time when the government is working on a free-trade deal with South Korea. Despite the negotiators being engaged in a deadlock over certain provisions of the deal, the government remains hopeful that the talks will still be concluded by the end of the month.

If signed, the free-trade agreement with South Korea will only be the country's second-bilateral trade deal after the Philippines-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement, which entered into force in 2008.

South Korea was the Philippines's fourth major trading partner last year. It is the Philippines's eighth export market and second import supplier. Total bilateral trade was valued at $13.7 billion, with Philippine exports to South Korea at $2.5 billion, and Philippine imports from South Korea at $11.2 billion.

Aside from Duterte, other Asean leaders are also expected to attend the 2019 Asean-ROK Commemorative Summit which is said to be the biggest international conference that Korea hosts under the Moon Jae-in administration.

Based on the summit's web site, it is also the third hosted by Korea with Asean following the ones in Jeju and Busan, in 2009 and 2014, respectively.

Among Asean's dialogue partners, South Korea is the only country which will have hosted all three commemorative summits with Asean in its own country.

The President's first official visit to South Korea was in June 2018, when more than 20 government-to-government agreements, as well as business deals were signed between Manila and Seoul.

Government-to-government agreements cover areas of wider collaboration in science and technology, infrastructure development, renewable-energy deployment, trade and economic relations, transportation, agriculture, forestry and communications.

An estimated $4.8 billion worth of business deals were inked which could create some 20,000 to 25,000 jobs.

Both leaders back then also agreed to strengthen partnerships in defense and security, trade and investments, infrastructure development and protection of their nationals.